Well, there are.... First of all,
as you can see, the cover is quite badly worn.
It is leather. It is scuffed—
a very typical kind of scuffing
for this kind of leather.
It is pretty much still in one piece.
The pages in the text block
are still essentially together,
at least they are in the right order.
There are some things pasted in here.
Again, this is a handwritten journal
of a trip to Europe. I guess I should mention
this is by Samuel Sullivan Cox.
The journal dates from 1851.
This journal would have been purchased . . .
the book itself would have been purchased
as a blank book at a stationers.
In fact, it has a label in it,
the original bookseller's label:
sold by William W. Rose, stationer,
19 Wall Street, New York City.
It would have been a blank book
made up with a leather binding
for this purpose,
and he pretty much filled it up
with writing.
The covering is a very standard sort
of early of early American sheepskin binding.
It is very plain.
The spine is gone . . . the leather spine.
It would have been a full leather binding.
There is some masking tape on there.
It's been repaired.
It's got some water stains.
It's been etched into the cover
with some sharp tool:
S. S. Cox—can't quite read it.
It says something about a journal;
it says USA.
This is a very primitive way of titling it, I guess—
instead of gold tooling
or anything like that.
The spine would have been very plain,
probably wouldn't have had a title on it.
It may have just been a plain leather spine,
although there might have been
some tooled lines across the spine.
As you can see,
the pages here at the folds . . .
this book is made up of sections
of, I don't know, 8 to 10 leaves
folded together and sewn together
through the center folds,
and all these sections are sewn together,
and the sewing is joined here
along the spine,
and you can see the center fold—
or the back fold—on many,
on most of these sections
is worn away is broken away.
That's from wear and tear.
And also the original leather
would have been glued
right directly to the backbone,
to the spine of the paper,
so as that wore down
it tore that outer fold.
That will be repaired later on.
The first thing I will do is,
I will go through this,
I will think of what needs to be done.
I have already talked to the curators
about what they are interested in
and the whole scope of this project.
[Interviewer]: It is tempting to think
that the water damage happened
on the RMS Asia during his crossing
of the Atlantic,
but it could  have happened
at any time during the past 150 years I suppose.
[Campbell]: That's right.
The water damage is fairly minor.
I don't think in fact the text block
has any water damage at all.
There may be a few stains.
It looks like it might have
a little bit but, there are . . . there is
some staining on the cover,
and in fact it looks like someone put a
coffee cup or something down the cover
at one point. There's a stain here.